README.md, before:

# seq192

WORK IN PROGRESS

MIDI sequencer based on seq24 with less features and more swag.

**Less features**
- No song editor
- No keyboard controls
- No midi controls
- Linux only

**More swag**
- Interface rewritten with GTK3
- OSC controls
- almost 192 patterns per set

## Build

**Dependencies** (as debian packages)
```
libjack-jackd2-dev liblo-dev libgtkmm-3.0-dev libasound2-dev nlohmann-json3-dev
```

**Build**
```
make clean && make -j8
```



**Run**

```
usage: ./src/seq192 [options]

options:
  -h, --help : show this message
  -f, --file <filename> : load midi file on startup
  -p, --osc-port <port> : osc input port (udp port number or unix socket path)
  -j, --jack-transport : sync to jack transport
  -n, --no-gui : headless mode

```

## Jack transport

When `--jack-transport` is set, seq192 will

- follow start / stop commands from other clients
- send start / stop commands to other clients
- use the transport master's bpm
- set its position to 0 whenever the transport stops or restarts
- **not** attempt to reposition within sequences

## OSC commands

When `--osc-port` is set, seq192 will be controllable with the following OSC commands

#### /play
Start playback or restart if already playing

#### /stop
Stop playback

#### /screenset <int: screen>
Change active screen set

#### /panic
Disable all sequences and cancel queued sequences

#### /sequence <string: mode> <int: column> <int: row>
Set sequence(s) state
- mode: "solo", "on", "off" or "toggle"
- column: column number on screen set (zero indexed)
- row: row number; if omitted, all rows are affected; multiple rows can be specified

#### /sequence <string: mode> <string: name>
Set sequence(s) state
- name: sequence name or osc pattern (can match multiple sequence names); multiple names can be specified

#### /sequence/queue <string: mode> <int: column> <int: row>
Same as /sequence but affected sequences will change state only on next cycle

#### /sequence/trig <string: mode> <int: column> <int: row>
Same as /sequence and (re)start playback


#### /status <string: address>
Send sequencer's status as json, without sequences informations
- address: osc.udp://ip:port ; if omitted the response will be sent to the sender

#### /status/extended <string: address>
Send sequencer's status as json, including sequences informations
- address: osc.udp://ip:port ; if omitted the response will be sent to the sender


## OSC status formatting


```
{
    "screenset": <int>,
    "screensetName": "<string>",
    "playing": <int>,
    "bpm": <int>,
    "tick": <int>,
    "sequences": [
        {
            "col": <int>,
            "row": <int>,
            "name": "<string>",
            "time": "<string>",
            "bars": <int>,
            "ticks": <int>,
            "queued": <int>,
            "playing": <int>,
            "timesPlayed": <int>
        },
        ...
    ]
}
```

*Sequencer status*

- screenset: current screenset
- screensetName: current screenset's name
- playing: playback state
- bpm: current bpm
- tick: playback tick (192 ticks = 1 quarter note)

*Sequences statuses* (1 per active sequence in current screenset)

- col: column position
- row: row position
- name: sequence name
- time: sequence time signature (eg "4/4")
- bars: number of bars in sequence
- ticks: sequence length
- queued: sequence's queued state
- playing: sequence's playing state
- timesPlayed: number of times the sequence played since last enabled

## Configuration / Control map / Key map

Config files are located in `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/seq192/` (`~/.config/seq192/` by default).

**`~/.config/seq192/config.json` example:**

```json
{
    "buses": {
        "0": {
            "name": "Sampler",
            "channels": {
                "0": {
                    "name": "Drums",
                    "notes": {
                        "64": "Kick",
                        "65": "Snare",
                        "66": "Hihat"
                    },
                    "controls": {
                        "1": "Custom cc name ",
                        "2": "Etc"
                    }
                }
            }
        },
        "1": {
            "name": "Bass synth",
            "channels":{
                "0": {"name": "Trap bass"},
                "1": {"name": "Wobble"}
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Commit message:

readme: osc status can reply on unix socket

README.md, after:

# seq192

WORK IN PROGRESS

MIDI sequencer based on seq24 with less features and more swag.

**Less features**
- No song editor
- No keyboard controls
- No midi controls
- Linux only

**More swag**
- Interface rewritten with GTK3
- OSC controls
- almost 192 patterns per set

## Build

**Dependencies** (as debian packages)
```
libjack-jackd2-dev liblo-dev libgtkmm-3.0-dev libasound2-dev nlohmann-json3-dev
```

**Build**
```
make clean && make -j8
```



**Run**

```
usage: ./src/seq192 [options]

options:
  -h, --help : show this message
  -f, --file <filename> : load midi file on startup
  -p, --osc-port <port> : osc input port (udp port number or unix socket path)
  -j, --jack-transport : sync to jack transport
  -n, --no-gui : headless mode

```

## Jack transport

When `--jack-transport` is set, seq192 will

- follow start / stop commands from other clients
- send start / stop commands to other clients
- use the transport master's bpm
- set its position to 0 whenever the transport stops or restarts
- **not** attempt to reposition within sequences

## OSC commands

When `--osc-port` is set, seq192 will be controllable with the following OSC commands

#### /play
Start playback or restart if already playing

#### /stop
Stop playback

#### /screenset <int: screen>
Change active screen set

#### /panic
Disable all sequences and cancel queued sequences

#### /sequence <string: mode> <int: column> <int: row>
Set sequence(s) state
- mode: "solo", "on", "off" or "toggle"
- column: column number on screen set (zero indexed)
- row: row number; if omitted, all rows are affected; multiple rows can be specified

#### /sequence <string: mode> <string: name>
Set sequence(s) state
- name: sequence name or osc pattern (can match multiple sequence names); multiple names can be specified

#### /sequence/queue <string: mode> <int: column> <int: row>
Same as /sequence but affected sequences will change state only on next cycle

#### /sequence/trig <string: mode> <int: column> <int: row>
Same as /sequence and (re)start playback


#### /status <string: address>
Send sequencer's status as json, without sequences informations
- address: `osc.udp://ip:port` or `osc.unix///path/to/socket` ; if omitted the response will be sent to the sender

#### /status/extended <string: address>
Send sequencer's status as json, including sequences informations
- address: `osc.udp://ip:port` or `osc.unix///path/to/socket` ; if omitted the response will be sent to the sender


## OSC status formatting


```
{
    "screenset": <int>,
    "screensetName": "<string>",
    "playing": <int>,
    "bpm": <int>,
    "tick": <int>,
    "sequences": [
        {
            "col": <int>,
            "row": <int>,
            "name": "<string>",
            "time": "<string>",
            "bars": <int>,
            "ticks": <int>,
            "queued": <int>,
            "playing": <int>,
            "timesPlayed": <int>
        },
        ...
    ]
}
```

*Sequencer status*

- screenset: current screenset
- screensetName: current screenset's name
- playing: playback state
- bpm: current bpm
- tick: playback tick (192 ticks = 1 quarter note)

*Sequences statuses* (1 per active sequence in current screenset)

- col: column position
- row: row position
- name: sequence name
- time: sequence time signature (eg "4/4")
- bars: number of bars in sequence
- ticks: sequence length
- queued: sequence's queued state
- playing: sequence's playing state
- timesPlayed: number of times the sequence played since last enabled

## Configuration / Control map / Key map

Config files are located in `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/seq192/` (`~/.config/seq192/` by default).

**`~/.config/seq192/config.json` example:**

```json
{
    "buses": {
        "0": {
            "name": "Sampler",
            "channels": {
                "0": {
                    "name": "Drums",
                    "notes": {
                        "64": "Kick",
                        "65": "Snare",
                        "66": "Hihat"
                    },
                    "controls": {
                        "1": "Custom cc name ",
                        "2": "Etc"
                    }
                }
            }
        },
        "1": {
            "name": "Bass synth",
            "channels":{
                "0": {"name": "Trap bass"},
                "1": {"name": "Wobble"}
            }
        }
    }
}
```
